​Hello everybody, welcome back to the Data Structures and ​Algorithm specialization and the Algorithmic Toolbox course within it. ​This is the last lecture in the introductory unit and ​here we're going to give sort of an overview of the course. ​And in particular, what we're going to do is we're going to talk about sort ​of the philosophy of the course, and how it fits into the what we're going to ​be teaching you within the rest of this course. ​So, there's a problem. ​Algorithm design is hard, and in particular it's hard to teach. ​And by this I actually mean something pretty specific. ​Now, algorithms solve many, many different problems. 
​You can use them to find paths between locations on a map, ​or find good matchings with some property, or identify images in a photograph. ​Many, many different sort of unrelated sounding problems ​can all be solved by algorithms. ​And because the sorts of things that an algorithm problem might ask you to ​do are so ​varied, there's no unified technique that will allow you to solve all of them. ​And this is different from what you see in a lot of classes, when you're learning linear ​algebra they talk about how do you solve systems of linear equations. ​And they teach you some technique, like row reduction, and ​then you're sort of done. ​You just sort of need to practice it, ​and you can solve any system of linear equations. ​They give you a system of linear equations, ​you turn the crank on this row reduction technology and out pops an answer. 
​For algorithms there isn't that sort of thing. ​There's no general procedure where I give you an algorithms problem and you sort of ​plug it into this machine and turn a crank and out pops a good algorithm for it. ​And this makes it hard to teach. ​If there was such a thing, we could just teach you, here's this thing that you do. ​You do this, and ​you'll have a good algorithm for any problem you might run into. ​And it's harder than that. ​I mean, sometimes, in order to find a good algorithm, ​it requires that you have a unique insight. 
​You're working on some problem that no one's ever looked at before. ​In order to find a good algorithm for it, you need to come up with some clever idea ​that no one else has ever come up with before. ​This is why sort of algorithms are so well studied, ​why they're such an active field of research. ​There are still so many different new things yet to be discovered there. ​And we certainly can't teach you things that haven't been discovered yet. ​And we also can't teach you things custom tailored to ​the problems that you are going to run into in your life as a programmer. ​So since we can't teach you everything you need to know about how to solve ​all of your algorithm problems, what can we teach you? 
​Well, there are sort of two things. ​One thing that we can definitely give you is practice designing algorithms. ​We're going to have lots of homework problems with lots of things for ​you to work on, and this will give you practice, how do you, ​given a problem you haven't seen before, come up with a good algorithm for it? ​Once you have the algorithm, how do you implement it and ​make sure everything works and runs reasonably well? ​That's something you can practice. ​And it turns out that for the type of problems where they're sort of very ​general and can be many different things, I mean, it's possible to solve a lot ​of them, and one of the ways to be able to solve them is practice. ​But we're also going to do more. 
​We're not just going to throw you in the deep end and say, try to swim, ​try to program all of these algorithms. ​There is something useful. ​We can't teach you a generic procedure that will solve ​any algorithms problem for you. ​But what we can do is we can give you some common tools. ​Some very useful tools for algorithm design. ​And especially in this first course in our specialization ​we're really going to focus on helping to build up your algorithmic toolbox. ​And in particular, this course is going to focus on three of the most common and ​most generally applicable algorithmic design techniques. 
​The first of these is greedy algorithms. ​This is something where you're trying to construct some big object, and ​the way you do it is you sort of make one decision in the most greedy, ​locally optimal way you can. ​And once you've made that decision you make another decision in the most greedy, ​locally optimal way you can. ​And you just keep making these decisions one at a time until you have an answer. ​And surprisingly somehow making these locally optimal decisions ​gives you a globally optimal solution. ​And when this happens it gives you very clean algorithms and it's great. ​That's the first thing we'll talk about. 
​Next, we'll talk about divide and conquer, ​which is a technique where you've got some big problem you're trying to solve. ​What you do is you break it into a bunch of little pieces, you solve all ​the pieces, and then you put their answers together to solve the original thing. ​Finally we'll talk about dynamic programming. ​This is a little bit more subtle of a technique. ​This is what you get when you've got some sort of large problem, that has sort of ​a lot of, not sub-problems, but sort of related problems to it. ​And this sort of whole family of related problems, ​their solutions sort of depend on one another in a particular type of way. ​And when you have it there's this great trick that you have, ​where you sort of start at the small problems at the bottom of the pile. 
​And you solve all of them. ​And you sort of keep track of all of your answers. ​And you use the answers to the small problems, ​to build up to obtain answers to the larger and larger problems. ​So these are what we're going to talk about. ​Each of the techniques we're going to talk about, how you recognize when it applies, ​how do you analyze it when it applies, ​and some practical techniques about how to implement, how to use them. ​All that good stuff. ​So there's one other thing before we let you go into the fun world of ​greedy algorithms that you should keep in mind throughout this course, ​and that's that there are these, maybe, different levels of algorithm design. 
​There's sort of different levels of sophistication that go into it. ​At sort of the very lowest level, or top of this slide, ​I guess, there is the naive algorithm. ​This is sort of a thing where you take the definition of a problem and ​you turn it into an algorithm, and we saw this for Fibonacci numbers and ​greatest common divisors. ​You sort of interpreted the definition of the thing you wanted to compute as ​an algorithm, and you were done. ​Now, these things are often very slow, as we saw. ​Often they look like in order to find the best way of doing something, ​we enumerate all ways to do it, and then figure out which one's the best. ​On the other hand, these are slow, but it's often a good idea to first come up ​with a naive algorithm, just make sure you have some algorithm that works. 
​Sometimes this works well and often you can just be done with it. ​Other times, it's too slow, but at least you made sure that you understood ​what problem you were working on and have something that runs. ​But after that, the next thing that you want to do, ​if this naive algorithm is too slow, is you try and look at your tool box. ​You say, are there any standard techniques that I know that apply here? ​Maybe there's a greedy algorithm that solves this problem, or ​maybe I have to use a dynamic program. ​But if you can find one of these standard techniques that work, ​often that doesn't involve too much effort on your part, and ​gives you something that works pretty well. ​Now once you have something that works, you often want to optimize it. 
​And there are lots of ways to improve an existing algorithm. ​Reduce the runtime from n-cubed to n-squared or n-squared to n. ​And to do this, there are just a whole bunch of things. ​Maybe sometimes you could just sort of rearrange the order in which you do ​the operations to cut out some of the work that you do. ​Sometimes you have to introduce a data structure to speed things up. ​There are a bunch of ways to do this. ​We'll talk a little bit about how this works. 
​And these three levels are things that you should be comfortable with and ​able to apply pretty well by the end of this course. ​However, sometimes these three are not enough. ​Sometimes a naive algorithm is just too slow, the standard tools don't apply, ​there's nothing that you can really optimize to improve things. ​Sometimes in order to get a workable algorithm, what you need is magic. ​You need some unique insight that no one else has ever had before. ​You need some sort of clever new idea and these, there's only so ​much we can do to teach you how to produce magic. ​We will show you some examples of things that really did have clever ideas that ​maybe you can't reproduce the thought process like, ​how do you come up with this crazy idea, that just happens to make this work? 
​You should at least be able to appreciate the sort of thought that goes into this ​sort of thing. ​In any case it's something to keep in mind when looking on that, ​when thinking about our problems, and what sort of things are expected of you. ​In any case, that is basically it for the introductory segment. ​We've talked a lot about sort of why algorithms are important and ​given you some examples. ​We've talked about asymptotic notation, ​but now it's time to let you go to the rest of the course. ​The rest of the course will keep giving you exercises to hone your skills, and ​each unit of this course will cover one of these major techniques. ​After I leave you with the end of the introduction, Michael will pick up and ​talk to you about greedy algorithms. 
​Next off, Neil will talk to you about divide and conquer. ​Finally, Pavel will have a unit on dynamic programming. ​Each of these, they will talk to you about where the technique applies, ​how to analyze it, how to implement it, all that good stuff. ​But this is where I leave you, I hope you enjoyed the introduction, and I will ​put you in Michael's very capable hands to start learning about greedy algorithms ​starting in the next lecture. ​So, until then, farewell. 